# japanese-hometown-tax-payment-analysis-2020
This analysis aims to analyze the impact of Japan's hometown tax system on regional revitalization. The attached dataset contains hometown tax payments and prefecture-level GDP data for 47 prefectures from 2008 to 2017. Furthermore, in this analysis, panel analysis is applied to analyze two-dimensional data that collected over time and over the same local governments.

## Summary of Data
This analysis project is based on Japanese hometown tax payment and total production data of 47 prefectures collected from ministry of internal affairs and communications. This fiscal policy is implemented to reduce the fiscal gap between metropolitan cities and rural areas which results from low birth rate and increase of elder population. Our ultimate goal is to analyze the relationship between hometown tax payment and  local change of production, attempting to figure out if this policy has achieved its intention.

Beside the prefecture-level of production, here includes labor force, inflation, production in the subfields like education, health and social welfare as independent variables. 

## Approach
This analysis use the percentage change of prefecture-level total production as the dependent variables, and percentage change of receive and deduction payments as our main independent variables. Besides, the percentage shift of input labor force, capital stock, residence's income are all included as independent variables. The multiple linear regression formula contains an error term. 
We here run our three regression analysis: pooled ordinary least squares (Pooled OLS), fixed effect model, and random effect model. Furthermore, to justify which model best fit for this dataset, we apply Durbin-Wu-Hausman test, Breusch & Pagan test, and F test to evaluate performance of each model. 
Check the following link from Oxford online resource for introduction of panel data analysis: https://global.oup.com/uk/orc/busecon/economics/dougherty5e/chapters/ch14.
Please check the attached PDF file in the repository for models' results.
## Discussion
We analyzed data from FY 2008, when hometown tax payments began, to FY 2016, and found that the rate of increase in the amount of hometown tax payments had a positive impact on the rate of increase in the prefecture's gross domestic production. The results show that the rate of increase in the amount of hometown tax payments has a positive impact on the rate of increase in the prefecture's gross domestic production. This indicates that the increase in hometown tax payments since the hometown tax payment system started has been linked to the revitalization of the local economy. 
The analysis by the three industries of public service, education, and health and social welfare shows that the rate of increase in the amount of hometown tax payments had no significant effect on the rate of increase in the gross prefectural production of each industry.
It is noteworthy that the amount of residential tax credit related to hometown tax payment had a significant impact on most of the analyzed results. The rate of change in gross prefectural production, shift of gross prefectural production when focusing on the data from 2014 to 2016, and the rate of change in gross prefectural production of health and social welfare had a significant positive impact when they were the explained variables, while the rate of change in gross prefectural production of public services had a significant negative impact when it was the explained variable. A possible reason for the positive effect of hometown tax payment deductions on gross prefectural production is that more residents in urban areas use hometown tax payments. In urban areas, tax revenues from hometown tax payment may decrease due to hometown tax payment, but other revenues may be able to cover the decrease. In other words, the rate of increase in the amount of deductions for hometown tax payment does not directly affect the rate of increase in gross prefectural production. Only in the case of public services, the rate of increase in the amount of hometown tax payment deductions had a negative impact on the rate of increase in gross prefectural production. This suggests that the public service sector is more sensitive to the decrease in revenue due to the hometown tax payment.
## Limitations
The effect of hometown tax payments on the local economy has been examined through regression analysis. The results of the analysis showed that the gross prefectural production increased in correlation with the increase in the amount of hometown tax payments received. However, when only the data from the period when hometown tax payments were activated were analyzed, the amount of hometown tax payments did not have a significant effect on the gross prefectural production. This analysis was not necessarily sufficient, and there were limitations in the data collection. In particular, data for the period after 2009, when there was a marked upward trend, were not available. In addition, it is undeniable that there may have been a lack of explanatory variables when gross prefectural product was used as the explained variable. The explanatory variables used in this analysis alone may not have been an accurate result due to poor fit.
Future issues include further selection of explanatory variables, and further consideration of whether it is appropriate to use gross prefectural production as the explained variable in order to measure the effect of hometown tax payment. Although it was not a priority objective of the analysis, we would like to further examine and verify the causes of the significant effect of hometown tax payment on the gross prefectural production.
